[CHIME MUSIC]
[PERCUSSION MUSIC]
>> Do you know that you
live in an energetic ocean?
What is an energetic ocean?
Hi, I'm Randy Veitenheimer.
And there is one thing I want
to really make you understand,
and it is how to identify
energy around you
and how this affects you.
I really want to showcase this
energetic ocean you live in,
otherwise known as
the energetic field.
[THEME MUSIC]
[MEDITATIVE MUSIC]
What is an energetic ocean?
It is the total of all energies
present in all its forms
and variations in
existence right now.
Our awareness only
includes a small percentage
of the energetic field.
Everything that exists on
this planet and everywhere
in the universe and
beyond, all of these things
do affect you to some degree.
They affect you through the
electromagnetic spectrum.
collective consciousness.
For example, take the breaking
of the four-minute mile.
No one could break this
record until they did.
And then it was planted in
the collective consciousness
by breaking the morphic field.
We brought a new
reality into existence
when the four-minute
mile was broken.
All of a sudden, it becomes
an inclusive reality,
which is how the
energetic ocean works.
As we grow up, we turn around
and break these morphic fields
that say, you can't do that,
because you're five years old,
or you can't do this, because
you're 15 or you're 18
or you're 20, when the
truth of the matter
is, everybody's an individual.
Everybody has their own
speed and their own life
force that progresses throughout
life at their own pace.
[DEBRIS RATTLING]
Collapsing of a
current reality is also
the creation of a new reality.
Pablo Picasso quotes,
"Every act of creation
is first an act of destruction."
Why is there destruction?
Why do we agree as a
collective consciousness
to have destruction?
And the answer is, we
want to create as humans.
If there is a creative
aspect of the universe,
it is certainly energy in
all its manifestations.
The path of creation
is energy flow.
Without it, nothing exists.
Is the purpose for
everything existing
to react with its surroundings?
Yes.
So how does the energetic become
accessible to create new things
in our three-dimensional world
or our number one reality?
It's very simple.
You take what exists in zero
reality in the form of thoughts
and feelings, emotions,
ideas, imagination,
and you translate it.
You have to take it
from a thought process
into a physicality.
Everybody has some
way to do this.
The creative nature of humans
is expressed in myriad ways.
Some people are cooks.
Some people are bakers.
Some people are artists.
And yet, we all are artists.
And the artistic
endeavor we engage in
is the creation of our own life.
[PERCUSSION MUSIC]
How does someone
create something
in the energetic
ocean that doesn't
exist yet and materialize it?
You take it out of
energetic existence
and materialize it
through your actions.
Actions, actually
physical actions,
is the only way to
materialize something.
So all the books that
talk about manifestation,
all the books that talk
about affirmations,
you can do that all day your
entire life and still not
do anything.
But when you add physical
actions to a plan of action,
when you lay out the materials
you need to make a painting
or to make a pasta,
now you are taking
that which is the universe
as it exists energetically
and transforming it into the
physical universe, the number
one reality we exist in,
the one we move through.
We also move through the
energetic ocean mentally.
We moved through it emotionally.
We move through it psychically.
And ultimately, we moved
through it spiritually.
[MEDITATIVE MUSIC]
What does energy look
like when you physically
move versus mentally move?
You can mentally move
all over the universe.
When you place your
consciousness on Mars,
you are there, but you're
not there physically.
It's the same way with
our creative thoughts.
No matter how much creative
thought you put into something,
it's the physicality of making
it concrete, to making it real,
to bringing it into existence.
And this is the same
thing as life itself.
Life is brought into existence.
[NEW AGE MUSIC]
What does the energetic
ocean look like?
The visual input
of the human body
is insufficient to describe
this energetic ocean.
We would have to have a far
greater range of receptivity.
You can develop some of that.
You can develop
it to some extent.
But can you develop
it to where you
encompass the whole energetic
ocean of the universe?
The answer is no in
your physical form.
In a non-physical form, you can.
You become that.
You are a drop in the ocean.
But you become the ocean itself.
Once you dive into that
ocean, you are not you.
To me, the whole
purpose of existence
is that you are yourself.
To lose yourself into
the energetic ocean
of the entire universe is to
lose your purpose of being
alive today in this world.
So what energies do we
have the potential to see?
We can see the penumbra
around a candle.
We can see the etheric
field around a human being.
We can actually see that
etheric field around plants,
literally around
the Earth itself,
if we are able to develop
the ability to look
at those frequency levels.
There are more
frequencies available
that reveal far more
things about the universe,
from infrared all the
way up to ultraviolet.
And even those represent
limits on our understanding
and our perception
of the universe.
When you explore the energetic,
you are not being physical.
Your physical body
comes into status.
Sometimes we call
it a dream state.
But also, there's
active meditation.
We explore the
energetic ocean with
additional sensory abilities.
Historically, they have been
called psychic abilities
or extrasensory perception.
They've been called
lucid dreaming.
There's all kinds of language.
What's interesting-- it
is all around the world.
Native American culture has it.
Chinese culture has it.
Every society in the world
has some form of communication
or participation or contact with
the energy ocean we live in.
And once you go there, you see
things that cannot be described
through normal senses.
And that becomes the problem.
All these people have
tried to explain it.
But it's kind of like
explaining a color.
It's hard to do.
Once you move into
that energetic ocean
and have actually
experienced it,
it is the same thing as trying
to describe a color as a sound
or a sound as a color.
You exist in it.
You recognize it.
You are a part of it.
And it takes separation for
you to be able to see it.
One of the things
that happens is that
in deep meditative states--
they also are called
death states--
that your awareness
can finally expand out
beyond the human physical form.
[MEDITATIVE MUSIC]
We are given this
human physical form
to interact with this
universe, to this reality.
But there is a far
bigger one, and people
want to know about it.
But the knowledge of it
has an effect on you.
So one of the traps of higher
consciousness and evolution
and being able to
transform yourself
is that, at some point,
you lose the desire
to be interactive in life.
How do we know this?
People have gone into caves.
People have isolated themselves.
When you do this, it's
like an isolation tank.
Your awareness expands out.
And it can expand out
in a positive direction
to include the whole
universe, or it
can go in a negative direction
and show up all your fears.
Being isolated causes your body
to freeze and to become static.
It's not a path I like.
I think that being alive
is its end in itself.
I think the entire
planet is given to us
to be able to express ourselves
and be able to understand
ourselves and to find some
evolution of our consciousness
that becomes more
inclusive, not just of here,
but of everywhere.
[ELECTRONIC MUSIC]
What I like, though,
is that a lot of people
have creatively tried to express
what that ocean looks like,
what that human energy
field looks like.
If you take the
movie "The Matrix,"
they show energy as it's
flowing through the body.
There is an attempt to display
a human being as an energy
matrix, as an energy field.
And it depicts the flow of this
energy throughout that matrix,
throughout that image.
It's one of the most startling
images I've ever come across.
I have that same image in a
book on medical Qigong therapy
that was published 30 years ago.
It's the same attempt
in Chinese medicine
to describe the
fact that you are
an energetic being at
its ultimate level, not
a physical being.
And of course, this is what
quantum physics tries to do.
It tries to explain us as just
a matrix of energy and energy
flow.
There are other movies to
have also made attempts.
In the movie "Dr. Strange,"
in one particular scene,
you see the master
knock this astral body.
The physical
consciousness is removed.
It's knocked out of a person.
She knocks it out of him to
let him know he's not just
his physical self.
And that's important,
because that's
what happens in meditation.
That's what happens in
certain yoga practices, where
you become aware you're not
just your physical self,
that you have existence which
transcends the physical.
[CHIME MUSIC]
Another movie?
"The Predator."
Ah, now we get into all
kinds of additional physics--
the physics of
transformation, the physics
of translation, where we
translate from one space
to another, where you see the
Predator being in one spot
and instantly being
in another spot.
We call that quantum
jumping in quantum physics.
We see transformation
not through evolution,
but just all of a sudden, in a
moment, accepting a new form.
These are rare occurrences
in human beings at this time.
But they also point to
a future medical model.
They are predictive of
abilities that we will
come to have in the future.
[EASTERN STRING MUSIC]
How do you get into
the energetic ocean?
Here we go with
all the practices
that are available to you.
Ultimately, it comes down to
what works for you, whether it
be contemplative, whether
it be action-oriented,
whether it be
meditative in nature.
It is basically taking
time for contemplation,
for your awareness
to act independently
as we go through
life and afford us
the opportunity for
understanding, acceptance,
transformation, and
maybe even transcendence.
One of the things I've explored
is that this energetic ocean
follows a certain program.
And that is energy slowed
down becomes information.
When you place your
consciousness on something
or some place, you are there.
From that, we can take
a look at some phenomena
that goes on when we're
not just being physical.
When you daydream-- have you
ever poked somebody that's
daydreaming and go, hey,
hey, hey, where are you,
or where were you?
And they will say, I
was somewhere else.
When you dream at
night, you go places.
You take your senses with you.
Where were you?
You were somewhere in
that energetic ocean,
participating in
the information that
was at that point of
your consciousness.
[UPBEAT MUSIC]
People like Einstein, Tesla,
Picasso, all great artists
and scientists will admit that
in the middle of the night,
information comes to them.
It's not that
information came to them.
It's that they went somewhere
that information was.
And if you had the
same coordinates
of that energetic
ocean space slowed down
to become information,
you would come up
with the same
information they do.
How do we know this?
Because there have been
scientific achievements
that occurred simultaneously
through three, four,
or five different people
where all of those inventors
went to the same place.
The information that
was available to one
was available to some.
And if we go back
to morphic fields,
the information that's available
to some is available to all,
or the information available
to all is available to some.
This is what it
means to go exploring
in that energetic ocean.
We do it every day.
More particularly,
we do it every night.
And in particular, we do
it when we apply ourselves
in the form of
meditative, contemplative,
or out-of-body experiences,
including death.
Information slowed
down becomes matter.
Energy slowed down
becomes information.
becomes matter.
Now we exist.
This is the process
of existence,
of coming into being.
Finally, we're here.
That energetic ocean
of creative potential
is infinite in itself
and its expression.
We differentiate energy into
various forms and functions
according to its outcomes.
All existence and
experiences are an outcome
of various forms of energy.
What are some of
these components,
and what are their percentages
as they apply to human life?
Human energy is one component,
plant energy, animal energy,
earth energy, psychic
energy, cosmic energy.
But one of the things is
that none of these things
exist in the energetic ocean.
The energetic ocean is pure
imagination at one level.
It's pure formlessness
if we go to the Dao.
It's only as it
comes into expression
or only comes into observation
that we start giving it names.
If we take human energy, plant
energy, animal energy, earth
energy, psychic energy, cosmic
energy, and every other one
we can put a name
to, we probably
have come up with less than 1%.
Even though it's such an
infinite small percentage
of the entire energetic
ocean, it still gives us
the ability to operate.
The 99% is still
there to be explored.
Its existence is
continuous and extant.
It is one of the
faculties of consciousness
that we can explore the unknown,
that we can incorporate that
which doesn't exist into
our own ability to be alive
and to be able to
evolve ourselves.
I think this is the
origin of curiosity
in humans, the sheer
knowingness when
you come into existence that
there is something greater
out there and our innate desire
to find it or to look at it
or to explore it.
This allows you, the viewer,
to tap into the 99% unknown
and to create and participate
in a new, evolving universe
for you and the
collective consciousness.
[UPBEAT MUSIC]
In quantum physics
terms, we become
aware of our entanglement
with all life,
to become aware of your energy
flow and your connection.
We're connected to somebody.
We're entangled with
them in quantum physics.
We also recognize we're
in a coupled state.
This means that there is a
greater level of information
transfer going on.
There's a greater connection.
There is an expanded bandwidth.
This is what it means to be
in a coupled state to me.
And ultimately, we
accept our ground
state of being as complete and
meaning the entire universe
is me, and I am the
entire universe,
and I'm also a
fulfillment of life in all
its aspects and pervasiveness.
So how can you use the energetic
ocean to your advantage?
The more you are aware of
these forms of energy, the more
understanding and
potential for interaction
and gaining knowledge from them.
The creator has given us all
of the Earth and the universes
to understand ourselves.
By studying plants and
animals, our cousins,
we become more integrated
with life, our environment,
and our existence.
The energetic ocean we exist in
is also an information ocean.
And it is infinite in nature.
But we have the tools of
curiosity and consciousness
to be able to explore it,
to be able to encompass
a new point of view,
and thereby bring
new knowledge and a new form
of consciousness and existence
into the entire cosmos.
You can come to a
place of comfort
and a benign relationship to
the universe and to yourself.
It's that simple.
Thank you for joining me.
I hope this has helped you
understand the energetic ocean
you are swimming in daily and
that I have provided tools
for how to navigate
its murky waters.
Up next, I would like to share
with you one of the biggest
transformations
we are faced with,
which can be described as death.
Death to everyone
seems so final.
But I will explain how it is a
part of transformation process
that continues existence.
[THEME MUSIC]